README.md, before:

# storage-workflows
The repo for storage Argo Workflows.

Some useful links:
 - [Operator Service design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1paeLrixuwF9V_8LLMsiT6d3DpEoPo20lDKp9vNoDEv4/edit#heading=h.kmt9462l4emm)
 - [Argo Workflows](https://argo-workflows.infra-control-plane.doordash.red/workflows/storage-workflows?limit=50)
 - [Argo CD](https://argocd.infra-control-plane.doordash.red/) (search `storage-argo-workflows`)
 - storage [workflow templates](https://github.com/doordash/cluster-config/tree/master/argocd/workflows/storage) (today we are using `storage-workflows-test` branch for development)

### What's in this repo

##### build.yml and ci.yml
`build.yml` defines where to upload the docker image we build. `ci.yml` defines the ci pipeline with stages. We run unit tests in ci pipeline. For more information please read [YML Pipelines](https://doordash.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/EJ/pages/1040121920/YML+Pipelines).
##### Dockerfile
Every time we commit to this repo, the CI/CD pipeline will build a docker image and upload to our AWS ECR repo(called `storage-workflows`). This dockerfile contains the basic softwares we need and ENV variables. 

##### poetry
In our python project, we use [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) as the dependency management tool. The dependencies can be found in `pyproject.toml` config file. Note that `poetry.lock` file is generated, please do not modified it manually.

##### typer
We also use [typer](https://typer.tiangolo.com/) to help us build the python cli. In Argo Workflows, our python code is called from template's bash script. So having a cli tool will make the integration easier. Check main.py for examples.

##### storage_workflows
This is the place to implement the business logic of each step. Check `storage_workflows/crdb` for examples(AWS integration, CRDB SQL query, etc.). 
If you want to use the operator service for your service, you should create a sub directory for your own service like `storage_workflows/YOUR_SERVICE`.

### How to develop
##### Run
In local environment, go to `storage_workflows` directory and run `python main.py echo2 a b`.
If you are seeing module not found issue, you might need to temporarily add this to main.py's import section to run code locally.
```
import sys
sys.path.append("/Users/aochen/Projects/storage-workflows") # replace with your own path
```

In Docker container, just run `/usr/local/bin/storage-workflows echo2 a b`.
##### Unit Test
To run unit tests, use ```poetry run pytest```.
For more documentation, please refer to [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.2.x/).

##### Test in Argo Workflows
To test in Argo Workflows:
1. Raise a pr. Your docker image will be uploaded to AWS ECR if all the checks pass.
2. Go to AWS ECR and find your image in `storage-workflows`. Copy the URI.
3. Got to cluster-config repo. Checkout `storage-workflows-test` branch. Add your template and specify the docker image URI to use it. Commit you changes.
4. Go to [Argo CD](https://argocd.infra-control-plane.doordash.red/). Make sure it's in sync. If not, you can click `sync` button to trigger sync.
5.  Then you should be able to find your template in [Argo Workflows](https://argo-workflows.infra-control-plane.doordash.red/workflows/storage-workflows?limit=50).
6.  If you see errors, you can check `Containers` -> `Logs` to view logs.

Commit message:

Add description about IAM roles

README.md, after:

# storage-workflows
The repo for storage Argo Workflows.

Some useful links:
 - [Operator Service design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1paeLrixuwF9V_8LLMsiT6d3DpEoPo20lDKp9vNoDEv4/edit#heading=h.kmt9462l4emm)
 - [Argo Workflows](https://argo-workflows.infra-control-plane.doordash.red/workflows/storage-workflows?limit=50)
 - [Argo CD](https://argocd.infra-control-plane.doordash.red/) (search `storage-argo-workflows`)
 - storage [workflow templates](https://github.com/doordash/cluster-config/tree/master/argocd/workflows/storage) (today we are using `storage-workflows-test` branch for development)

### What's in this repo

##### build.yml and ci.yml
`build.yml` defines where to upload the docker image we build. `ci.yml` defines the ci pipeline with stages. We run unit tests in ci pipeline. For more information please read [YML Pipelines](https://doordash.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/EJ/pages/1040121920/YML+Pipelines).
##### Dockerfile
Every time we commit to this repo, the CI/CD pipeline will build a docker image and upload to our AWS ECR repo(called `storage-workflows`). This dockerfile contains the basic softwares we need and ENV variables. 
We create two new IAM roles(prod and staging) for storage workflows, you can find them in this Dockerfile.
To view the role permissions, please check:
 - [prod](https://github.com/doordash/infrastructure/blob/master/prod/common/storage/iam.tf)
 - [staging](https://github.com/doordash/tf_account_staging/blob/master/services/common/storage/iam.tf)

##### poetry
In our python project, we use [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) as the dependency management tool. The dependencies can be found in `pyproject.toml` config file. Note that `poetry.lock` file is generated, please do not modified it manually.

##### typer
We also use [typer](https://typer.tiangolo.com/) to help us build the python cli. In Argo Workflows, our python code is called from template's bash script. So having a cli tool will make the integration easier. Check main.py for examples.

##### storage_workflows
This is the place to implement the business logic of each step. Check `storage_workflows/crdb` for examples(AWS integration, CRDB SQL query, etc.). 
If you want to use the operator service for your service, you should create a sub directory for your own service like `storage_workflows/YOUR_SERVICE`.

### How to develop
##### Run
In local environment, go to `storage_workflows` directory and run `python main.py echo2 a b`.
If you are seeing module not found issue, you might need to temporarily add this to main.py's import section to run code locally.
```
import sys
sys.path.append("/Users/aochen/Projects/storage-workflows") # replace with your own path
```

In Docker container, just run `/usr/local/bin/storage-workflows echo2 a b`.
##### Unit Test
To run unit tests, use ```poetry run pytest```.
For more documentation, please refer to [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/7.2.x/).

##### Test in Argo Workflows
To test in Argo Workflows:
1. Raise a pr. Your docker image will be uploaded to AWS ECR if all the checks pass.
2. Go to AWS ECR and find your image in `storage-workflows`. Copy the URI.
3. Got to cluster-config repo. Checkout `storage-workflows-test` branch. Add your template and specify the docker image URI to use it. Commit you changes.
4. Go to [Argo CD](https://argocd.infra-control-plane.doordash.red/). Make sure it's in sync. If not, you can click `sync` button to trigger sync.
5.  Then you should be able to find your template in [Argo Workflows](https://argo-workflows.infra-control-plane.doordash.red/workflows/storage-workflows?limit=50).
6.  If you see errors, you can check `Containers` -> `Logs` to view logs.
